{
  "id": "205797579",
  "title": "Unsightly as UMBC win was, Kansas State's Sweet 16 run is testament to Bruce Weber's coaching",
  "description": "Kansas State on Sunday was on the verge of being upset by UMBC, the celebrated No. 16 seed, but the Wildcats fended off the Retrievers to reach the Sweet 16.",
  "author": "By Vahe Gregorian vgregorian@kcstar.com",
  "date": "2018-03-18T22:21:57-05:00",
  "photos": [
    {
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/cbrnzv/picture205802334/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/KANSASST_UMBC_06.JPG",
      "thumb_url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/cbrnzv/picture205802334/ALTERNATES/FREE_640/KANSASST_UMBC_06.JPG",
      "Desc": "Kansas State forward Xavier Sneed, left, celebrates his two-handed dunk against the UMBC Retrievers during Sunday night's Round of 32 game in Charlotte, N.C.",
      "Credit": "Jeff Siner | Charlotte Observer",
      "Width": "1140",
      "Height": "1466",
      "Weight": 0
    }
  ],
  "videos": [
    {
      "Id": "205805514",
      "Title": "K-State players shower Bruce Weber with water in Sweet 16 celebration",
      "Credit": "Video courtesy of K-State Athletics | Compiled by Chris Fickett",
      "Desc": "Kansas State beat UMBC on March 18, 2018, reaching the NCAA Tournament Sweet 16 for the first time with Bruce Weber as its coach, and the Wildcats celebrated by dousing Weber with water in the locker room. Video courtesy of K-State Athletics.",
      "Thumbnail": "",
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/sports/college/big-12/kansas-state/article205805514.html",
      "order": 1,
      "Sources": null
    },
    {
      "Id": "205803254",
      "Title": "Bruce Weber on Kansas State’s ‘gutsy’ win over UMBC: ‘I can’t say enough about our guys’",
      "Credit": "NCAA",
      "Desc": "Kansas State head coach Bruce Weber talks about his team's 50-43 win over UMBC.",
      "Thumbnail": "",
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/sports/college/big-12/kansas-state/article205803254.html",
      "order": 2,
      "Sources": null
    },
    {
      "Id": "205805764",
      "Title": "K-State coach Bruce Weber on how sweet it is to be in the Sweet 16",
      "Credit": "Kellis Robinett",
      "Desc": "K-State coach Bruce Weber talks about how sweet it is to be in the Sweet 16",
      "Thumbnail": "",
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/sports/college/big-12/kansas-state/article205805764.html",
      "order": 3,
      "Sources": null
    },
    {
      "Id": "205803634",
      "Title": "Mason Schoen, Kansas State celebrate another NCAA Tournament victory",
      "Credit": "Kellis Robinett",
      "Desc": "Mason Schoen, Kansas State celebrate another NCAA Tournament win",
      "Thumbnail": "",
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/sports/college/big-12/kansas-state/article205803634.html",
      "order": 4,
      "Sources": null
    }
  ],
  "weight": 8,
  "cover": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/cbrnzv/picture205802334/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/KANSASST_UMBC_06.JPG"
}

<p class="MsoNormal">Perception in sports is so fickle and fleeting, and so often swings wildly on a tight hinge. </p><p class="MsoNormal">For the latest testimony ... Approaching a minute left in Kansas State’s South Region NCAA Tournament game against UMBC on Sunday at the Spectrum Center, Bruce Weber’s status among K-State fans was on the verge of absorbing a brutal blow. </p><p class="MsoNormal">The ninth-seeded Wildcats were leading 16th-seeded UMBC just 44-41 and the Retrievers had the ball. And never mind the Cinderella stuff that just about the rest of the nation would have relished had the Retrievers pulled through.</p><p class="MsoNormal">This would have been a flubbed golden opportunity for K-State and certainly more fodder for the Weber naysayers, many of whom seem to feel that way just because that’s where they started when he replaced Frank Martin and … wasn’t Frank Martin.</p><p class="MsoNormal">In fact, you can bet that some feel so strongly they would rather have seen K-State lose so they could keep griping about Weber.</p><p class="MsoNormal">Instead, Makol Mawien blocked a Jairus Lyles shot, rebounded it and hit Xavier Sneed for a jumper that made it 46-41 on the way to a 50-43 victory that was unsightly but beautiful all at once.</p><p class="MsoNormal">It propelled K-State into the Sweet 16 for the first time since 2010 and made Weber just the 10th man in NCAA history to take three different schools this far.</p><p class="MsoNormal">With a touch of humor, Weber figured the path here was the real story.</p><p class="MsoNormal">“No 9 (seed) has ever beaten a 16 to get to the Sweet 16,” he said, “so we wrote our own history tonight.”</p><p><!-- %video:205803254% --></p><p class="MsoNormal">Sorry about everything, UMBC, which will be treasured for what it did to get here anyway and was part of another special moment when several of its players and K-State’s hugged as the last substitutions were made.</p><p class="MsoNormal">“We put our name on the map,” guard K.J. Maura said. “We’re giving hope to teams that come to the tournament with lower seeds. I think we’re giving hope to guys that are not even that tall, like me.</p><p class="MsoNormal">“So, people that feel like they’re underdogs in their life, I think we’ve given hope to everything they want to do.”</p><p class="MsoNormal">Meanwhile, “surreal” was the word of choice after the game for Sneed and guard Barry Brown, who led the Wildcats with 18 points but also disrupted UMBC star Lyles (four of 15 from the field) a game after doing much the same against Creighton’s Marcus Foster (two of 11). </p><p class="MsoNormal">“We talked about being the best defensive team in the tournament,” Weber said afterward.</p><p class="MsoNormal">As sporadic and rudderless as the offense was, good thing they didn’t let that get in the way on the other end as UMBC made just 14 of 47 field goals and six of 22 three-pointers.</p><p class="MsoNormal">So, to some degree the surreal idea rang true, especially considering the clumsy offense and that K-State remained without its best player, the injured Dean Wade, whose return timetable remains uncertain but just became all the more relevant. </p><p class="MsoNormal">But this was, in fact, real and spectacular — including as further validation for Weber, who previously took Southern Illinois and Illinois to the Sweet 16 and now joins a select group that includes Kansas coach Bill Self and Oklahoma coach (and former K-State player and coach) Lon Kruger. </p><p class="MsoNormal">Instead of allowing the improbable UMBC story to move toward the unfathomable, the dastardly Wildcats threw cold water on the UMBC dream.</p><p class="MsoNormal">Not to mention on Weber, whose damp hair at the postgame news conference resulted from what Brown called a “pool party” in the locker room.</p><p><!-- %video:205805764% --></p><p class="MsoNormal">Now, K-State has a remarkable opportunity ahead, and if this team can seize the moment, even the most ardent members of the anti-Weber faction might have to concede.</p><p class="MsoNormal">A spree of upsets (highlighted by top seed Virginia tumbling to the Retrievers) means that the foursome in the regional in Atlanta will be the first in NCAA Tournament to feature exactly zero of the top four seeds.</p><p class="MsoNormal">There, K-State will be across the bracket from No. 7 Nevada and No. 11 Loyola-Chicago as it goes up against No. 5 Kentucky. </p><p class="MsoNormal">Trouble is, K-State is 0-9 against Kentucky, including 0-3 in the NCAA Tournament, with the most recent loss in St. Louis in 2014 and the most painful in the 1951 national title game.</p><p class="MsoNormal"><a href="http://www.kansascity.com/sports/spt-columns-blogs/gregorian-chants/article342665/%E2%80%98Mr.-K-State%E2%80%99-Ernie-Barrett-seeks-revenge-against-Kentucky-63-years-later.html">Maybe that means Weber will get another call from former K-State star Ernie Barrett</a>, who told Weber in 2014 that “this is a chance to get even with them” for 1951.</p><p class="MsoNormal">Barrett suffered a deep shoulder bruise in the 1951 national semifinal and struggled in the 68-58 loss that may have turned out differently if he’d been healthy.</p><p class="MsoNormal">“That’s the one game that sticks in my craw … ,” Barrett, who went on to be the welcoming face of K-State athletics as athletic director and a fund-raiser, told me in an interview before the 2014 game. “Every time I’ve gone to the Final Four, and I’ve gone to 60 of them since I played in it … the teams that have won it have got big banners around the façade of wherever it’s played.</p><p class="MsoNormal">“And K-State’s name’s not there. Should have been.”</p><p class="MsoNormal">May not get there now, either. Especially considering Kentucky’s apparent athletic advantage and the history. </p><p class="MsoNormal">But if K-State wasn’t elegant against UMBC, it was gritty and resourceful and made the plays that mattered when it had to. </p><p class="MsoNormal">“(We) were able to buckle down, stay poised and make the big plays in the end,” Brown said.</p><p class="MsoNormal">Even if Wade returns, though, it’s hard to expect a win over Kentucky, really. But here’s the thing: </p><p class="MsoNormal">This tournament has been insane, and having the chance sure beats the alternative — a thin line of a difference that already has bolstered Weber’s profile and will give him a chance to enhance it further.</p><p class="MsoNormal">Now let’s March do what it does best and just see what twist is next.</p><p class="MsoNormal">“Why does everyone watch it?” Weber said. “It’s March Madness, and you never know what’s going to happen.”</p><p><!-- %video:205803634% --></p>

