{
  "id": "205800884",
  "title": "KU coach Bill Self praises Clemson's 'impressive' performance in rout of Auburn",
  "description": "The Kansas Jayhawks will meet the Clemson Tigers in the NCAA Tournament Sweet 16 on Friday in Omaha, Neb. The Tigers will be coming off Sunday's 31-point win over Auburn. The Midwest Regional semifinal will tip off at 6:07 p.m. and air on CBS.",
  "author": "By Gary Bedore gbedore@kcstar.com",
  "date": "2018-03-18T22:14:05-05:00",
  "photos": [
    {
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/9r0nua/picture205803019/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/APTOPIX%20NCAA%20Clemson%20Auburn%20Basketball.JPG",
      "thumb_url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/9r0nua/picture205803019/ALTERNATES/FREE_640/APTOPIX%20NCAA%20Clemson%20Auburn%20Basketball.JPG",
      "Desc": "Clemson forward Elijah Thomas (front) celebrated a basket with forward David Skara in the first half of an 84-53 win over Auburn in the second round of the NCAA Tournament in San Diego.",
      "Credit": "Denis Poroy | The Associated Press",
      "Width": "1140",
      "Height": "779",
      "Weight": 0
    }
  ],
  "videos": [
    {
      "Id": "205819374",
      "Title": "\"Nobody is going to know who I am:\" Clemson coach on facing KU",
      "Credit": "NCAA | Chris Fickett",
      "Desc": "Clemson coach Brad Brownell reached the Midwest Regional after his Tigers beat Auburn 84-53 in the NCAA Tournament second round on March 18, 2018. Clemson faces KU and Duke plays Syracuse in the other semifinal, all three coached by Hall of Famers.",
      "Thumbnail": "",
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/sports/college/big-12/university-of-kansas/article205819374.html",
      "order": 1,
      "Sources": null
    },
    {
      "Id": "205727264",
      "Title": "Analysis: KU beats Seton Hall, advances to NCAA Tournament Sweet 16",
      "Credit": "Chris Fickett",
      "Desc": "The Star's Jesse Newell and Sam Mellinger break down the KU Jayhawks' 83-79 victory over Seton Hall in the NCAA Tournament second round on March 17, 2018 in Wichita, Kansas.",
      "Thumbnail": "",
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/sports/college/big-12/university-of-kansas/article205727264.html",
      "order": 2,
      "Sources": null
    }
  ],
  "weight": 18,
  "cover": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/9r0nua/picture205803019/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/APTOPIX%20NCAA%20Clemson%20Auburn%20Basketball.JPG"
}

<p>Kansas basketball coach Bill Self watched with interest as Clemson, the Jayhawks’ next foe in the NCAA Tournament, clobbered Auburn 84-53 on Sunday in a second-round Midwest Regional contest in San Diego.</p><p>“That was probably as impressive of a performance as anyone has had in the tournament so far, and there have been some great performances,” Self said after a game in which Clemson led 43-19 at halftime — quite lopsided considering the Tigers entered as a No. 5 seed and Auburn's Tigers were No. 4.</p><p><span class="s1">“They dominated Auburn in every area — perimeter play, speed, rebounding and in the paint. Watching them today (on TV) was like watching a clinic. We’ll have a good book on them in the next 24 hours or so.</span>” </p><p><span class="s1">Senior guard Gabe DeVoe scored 22 points and junior forward Elijah Thomas had 18 points and 11 rebounds for Clemson, which closed the first half on a 25-4 run. Junior guard Marcquise Reed contributed 16 points and junior guard Shelton Mitchell scored 10 for Clemson.</span></p><p><span class="s1">“They are so well-coached and sound,” Self said of the Tigers (25-9). “Playing in the ACC they’ve played against some unbelievable teams all year long. This will be a difficult game, a game that will require us to play a lot better than we did this past weekend.”</span></p><p><!-- %video:205727264% --></p><p><span class="s1">No. 1 seed KU defeated No. 16 seed Penn 76-60 and No. 8 Seton Hall 83-79 in first- and second-round games Thursday and Saturday in Wichita.</span></p><p>Clemson, which will meet KU at 6:07 p.m. Friday in Omaha, Neb., is in the Sweet 16 for the fourth time in school history and the first since 1997. This year’s run was unexpected as the Tigers were picked to finish 13th in the ACC preseason poll. KU has reached the Elite Eight the last two seasons. The winner of the Clemson-KU game will meet either No. 2 seed Duke or No. 11 seed Syracuse on Sunday for a spot in the Final Four.</p><p><span class="s1">“Bill Self is one of the best in the business,” Clemson coach Brad Brownell told Live5News.com of Charleston, S.C., after Sunday’s rout of Auburn. “They have a tremendous team again, won the Big 12, are playing great. We’re going to enjoy this tonight (and) worry about Kansas tomorrow.</span>” </p><p><span class="s1">KU coach Self provided the team’s basic itinerary for the upcoming week.</span></p><p><span class="s1">“We’ll meet on Monday and have a light workout, (then) practice hard Tuesday, practice Wednesday and then after practice, bus up to Omaha. We’ll practice Thursday in Omaha and be ready to play Friday,” Self said Sunday night in a release.</span></p>

