{
  "id": "205891549",
  "title": "How Iceland immorally fixed its Down syndrome ‘problem’",
  "description": "In Iceland, upward of 85 percent of pregnant women opt for the prenatal testing. An geneticist says “we have basically eradicated” Down syndrome people, but regrets what he considers “heavy-handed genetic counseling” used there.",
  "author": "By GEORGE F. WILL Washington Post Writers Group",
  "date": "2018-03-19T15:05:04-05:00",
  "photos": [
    {
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/opinion/opn-columns-blogs/syndicated-columnists/g86gki/picture205891539/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/Gerber%20Spokesbaby",
      "thumb_url": "http://www.kansascity.com/opinion/opn-columns-blogs/syndicated-columnists/g86gki/picture205891539/ALTERNATES/FREE_640/Gerber%20Spokesbaby",
      "Desc": "Lucas Warren of Dalton, Ga. is the Gerber baby food company’s first spokesbaby with Down syndrome.",
      "Credit": "AP",
      "Width": "1140",
      "Height": "640",
      "Weight": 0
    }
  ],
  "videos": null,
  "weight": 8,
  "cover": "http://www.kansascity.com/opinion/opn-columns-blogs/syndicated-columnists/g86gki/picture205891539/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/Gerber%20Spokesbaby"
}

<div class="ng_z_idx_alfa"><p>Iceland must be pleased that it is close to success in its program of genocide, but before congratulating that nation on its final solution to the Down syndrome problem, perhaps it might answer a question: What is this problem? To help understand why some people might ask this question, I call your attention to <a href="https://www.cbsnews.com/news/down-syndrome-iceland/" target="_blank" title="">Agusta</a>, age 8, a citizen of Iceland. The other is Lucas, age 1, an American citizen in Dalton, Georgia, who recently was selected to be 2018 Spokesbaby for the Gerber baby food company. They are two examples of the problem.</p> </div><p>Now, before Iceland becomes snippy about the description of what it is doing, let us all try to think calmly about genocide, without getting judgmental about it. It is simply the deliberate, systematic attempt to erase a category of people. So, what one thinks about a genocide depends on what one thinks about the category involved. In Iceland’s case, the category is people with Down syndrome.</p><p>This is a congenital condition resulting from a chromosomal defect. It involves varying degrees of mental retardation (although probably not larger variances than exist between the mental capabilities of many people who are chromosomally normal — say, Isaac Newton and some people you know). It also involves some physical abnormalities and some increased health risks. Average life expectancy is now around 60 years, up from around 25 years four decades ago, when many Down syndrome people were institutionalized or otherwise isolated, denied education and generally not treated as people.</p><p>Highly (almost but not perfectly) accurate prenatal screening tests can reveal Down syndrome in utero. The expectant couple can then decide to extinguish the fetus and try again for a normal child that might be less trouble, at least until he or she is an adolescent with hormonal turbulence and a driver’s license.</p><p>In Iceland, upward of 85 percent of pregnant women opt for the prenatal testing, which has produced a Down syndrome elimination rate approaching 100 percent. Agusta was one of only three Down syndrome babies born there in 2009. Iceland could have moved one-third of the way to its goal if only Agusta had been detected and eliminated. Agusta’s mother is glad her screening failed.</p><p>An Iceland geneticist says “we have basically eradicated” Down syndrome people, but regrets what he considers “heavy-handed genetic counseling” that is influencing “decisions that are not medical, in a way.” One Icelandic counselor says, “We don’t look at abortion as a murder. We look at it as a thing that we ended.” Which makes Agusta and Lucas “things” that were not “ended.”</p><p>Because Iceland’s population is only about 340,000, the problem is more manageable there than in, say, the United Kingdom. It has approximately 40,000 Down syndrome citizens, many of whom were conceived before the development of effective search-and-destroy technologies. About 750 British Down syndrome babies are born each year, but 90 percent of women who learn that their child will have — actually, that their child does have — Down syndrome have an abortion. In Denmark the elimination rate is 98 percent.</p><p>America, where 19 percent of all pregnancies are aborted, is playing catch-up in the Down syndrome elimination sweepstakes (elimination rate of 67 percent, 1995-2011). So is France (77 percent), which seems determined to do better. In 2016, a French court ruled that it would be “inappropriate” for French television to run a video (“Dear Future Mom”) released for World Down Syndrome Day, which seeks to assure women carrying Down syndrome babies that their babies can lead happy lives, a conclusion resoundingly confirmed in a 2011 study. The court said the video is “likely to disturb the conscience of women” who aborted Down syndrome children.</p><p>It speaks volumes about today’s moral confusions that <em>this</em> — the disruption of an unethical complacency — is the real “Down syndrome problem.”</p>

