{
  "id": "205835199",
  "title": "Malaysian flag mistaken for ISIS symbol at Kansas lake leads to discrimination suit",
  "description": "Spirit Aerosystems reported to the FBI a Muslim man from Wichita because he flew a flag from his native Malaysia that was thought to be an American flag desecrated with ISIS symbols.",
  "author": "By Tony Rizzo trizzo@kcstar.com",
  "date": "2018-03-19T11:52:41-05:00",
  "photos": [
    {
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/w87gfx/picture205841499/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/malaysia%20flaghoriz.jpg",
      "thumb_url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/w87gfx/picture205841499/ALTERNATES/FREE_640/malaysia%20flaghoriz.jpg",
      "Desc": "A ranger or groundskeeper at a recreational lake operated by the Spirit Boeing Employees' Association reported that a group \"dressed in Muslim garb\" had an American flag \"desecrated with ISIS symbols.\" It was actually a Malaysian flag.",
      "Credit": "U.S. government",
      "Width": "1140",
      "Height": "570",
      "Weight": 0
    }
  ],
  "videos": null,
  "weight": 10,
  "cover": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/w87gfx/picture205841499/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/malaysia%20flaghoriz.jpg"
}

<p>A Muslim man from Malaysia has filed a discrimination lawsuit after his celebration of Malaysian independence was reported to the FBI as an ISIS meeting.</p><p>The FBI quickly ended its investigation after it determined that what had been described as an American flag desecrated with ISIS symbols was in fact a Malaysian flag.</p><p>Munir Zanial, an engineer for Spirit Aerosystems, was reported to the FBI last September after he rented a recreational lake operated by the Spirit Boeing Employees' Association, according to the lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in Kansas City, Kan.</p><p>Most of the 45 guests at the gathering were Muslim and some female guests wore hijabs.<br /></p><p>There was also a Malaysian flag to mark the 60th anniversary of that country's independence, according to the suit, filed by the ACLU of Kansas.</p><p>But someone described in the lawsuit as a ranger or groundskeeper reported to the employees' association that a group "dressed in Muslim garb" had an American flag "desecrated with ISIS symbols."</p><p>The association reported the information to Spirit, which in turn contacted the FBI, according to the suit.</p><p>Several weeks later, Zanial received notice from Facebook that law enforcement was seeking information about his account.</p><p>And shortly afterward, he received a call from an FBI agent.</p><p>The agent told Zanial that he had determined that it was a Malaysian flag and that he would recommend that the investigation be closed.</p><p>But in January, Zanial was told he was barred from again renting the facility because of the previous party.</p><p>The whole situation has left him feeling stress and anxiety.</p><p>The suit alleges that he was discriminated against based on race, ethnicity or religion.</p><p>"He is concerned that the investigation could affect his lawful permanent residence status," according to the suit. "He also feels distress and humiliation based on this experience of being singled-out because of his ethnicity, race and religion."</p>

