{
  "id": "215688615",
  "title": "Why Bank of America asked Kansas man for proof of citizenship — and may ask you, too",
  "description": "Bank of America says it’s updating information on all its customers to follow regulation and safety guidelines. A Kansas couple, thinking the request was a scam, ignored the request until their account was frozen.",
  "author": "By Rick Montgomery rmontgomery@kcstar.com",
  "date": "2018-07-27T20:34:25-05:00",
  "photos": [
    {
      "Url": "https://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/azddeg/picture215688090/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/BOA%20citizen%20072718%20JAT%20028F",
      "thumb_url": "https://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/azddeg/picture215688090/ALTERNATES/FREE_640/BOA%20citizen%20072718%20JAT%20028F",
      "Desc": "Josh Collins and his wife, Jessica Salazar Collins, were notified by Bank of America that Josh, who was born in Wichita, had to prove his citizenship. They thought it was a scam until the bank cut off access to their assets. The Collins family, Joshua Collins (from left), Jessica Salazar Collins, Trinidad Collins and Josh Collins live in Roeland Park.",
      "Credit": "Jill Toyoshiba | jtoyoshiba@kcstar.com",
      "Width": "1140",
      "Height": "758",
      "Weight": 0
    }
  ],
  "videos": [
    {
      "Id": "215682220",
      "Title": "Bank of America customer: “Why do they care if I’m a citizen?”",
      "Credit": "Jill Toyoshiba",
      "Desc": "Josh Collins and his wife Jessica Salazar Collins of were notified by Bank of America that Josh, who was born in Wichita, had to prove his citizenship. They thought it was a scam until the bank cut off access to their assets.",
      "Thumbnail": "",
      "Url": "https://www.kansascity.com/news/business/article215682220.html",
      "order": 1,
      "Sources": null
    }
  ],
  "weight": 15,
  "cover": "https://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/azddeg/picture215688090/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/BOA%20citizen%20072718%20JAT%20028F"
}

<p>Josh Collins and wife Jessica Salazar Collins were mystified: Why would the Bank of America, where they’ve banked since the early 2000s, suddenly ask questions about Josh’s citizenship?</p><p>He was born in Wichita.</p><p>So this thoroughly American couple from Roeland Park ignored a form that the bank mailed them about a month ago asking, among other things, whether Josh Collins was a citizen or could claim dual citizenship with another country.</p><p>Jessica said she tossed the letter because she and Josh “thought it was a scam.”</p><p>Until the bank on Tuesday cut off access to their money.</p><p>Bank of America said it was standard practice to ask about citizen status when opening a new account or updating customer information on an existing one.</p><p>“Like all financial institutions, we’re required by law to maintain complete and accurate records for all of our customers and may periodically request information, such as country of citizenship and proof of U.S. residency. This type of outreach is nothing new,” Bank of America said in a statement Friday. “This information must be up to date and therefore we periodically reach out to customers, which is what we did in this case.”</p><p>But according to the <a href="https://www.calbankers.com/" target="_blank">California Bankers Association</a>, the largest state affiliate of the national association, questions of citizenship are not federally required. “Not to our knowledge,” said the spokeswoman, Beth Mills.</p><p>She said federal law requires banks must obtain and verify only four things about account holders: name, date of birth, residential address and Social Security number.</p><p>Other federally chartered banks, including Wells Fargo, ask citizenship questions when some new deposit accounts are opened. The U.S. Department of the Treasury increasingly is urging financial institutions to collect as much information on customers as possible, including citizenship status, and to update often in part to ward against the laundering of money that may flow through foreign countries.</p><p>Nothing about Josh or Jessica said foreign national (though Jessica is a Latina whose great-grandparents settled in Kansas).</p><p>Still, when they showed up in person at a Bank of America branch in Mission, a bank worker’s computer screen showed a little red flag near Josh’s name and the word “citizenship” beside the flag. The bank asked Josh for his driver’s license and unfroze the account on Wednesday.</p><p><a href="https://www.facebook.com/jessica.salazarcollins" target="_blank">Jessica Salazar Collins’ Facebook</a> posts on the matter sparked dozens of angry comments about the policy, including from others who have been asked about their citizenship status.</p><p>In Seattle, <a href="http://www.seattleglobalist.com/2018/04/13/bank-asks-about-citizenship/73372" target="_blank">an April report</a> by the Spanish-language TV network Univision cited one such case and reported that Bank of America could not provide services to people known to still be citizens of countries under U.S. economic sanctions.</p><p>Bank of America spokeswoman Diane Wagner said it was unfortunate that the Collinses didn’t respond to the request for updated information.</p><p>“If we don’t hear from a customer in response to our outreach,” she said, “as a last resort, we may restrict the account until we can confirm it is in compliance with regulatory requirements” and safe from identity thieves.</p><p>Josh Collins wasn’t chosen for any particular reason, Wagner said, adding that all Bank of America customers eventually will receive update notices that will ask about citizenship and dual citizenship.</p><p>Nonetheless, Josh puzzles over why no such notice went to his wife, if all customers were being contacted.</p><p>Good thing the Collinses chose not to travel to Minnesota this week to vacation with family, as planned.</p><p>“We would’ve found ourselves up there without money,” said Jessica, who added that they’ll be changing banks. “No money for gas. No money to feed our kids. For a hotel. No money!”</p>

