{
  "id": "205926779",
  "title": "Central Missouri women's basketball reaches Division II Final Four",
  "description": "Central Missouri reached the NCAA Division II women's Final Four for the fifth time in school history and the first time since 1989 on Monday, beating Lubbock Christian 72-62 in a national quarterfinal Monday afternoon in Sioux Falls, S.D.",
  "author": "By The Kansas City Star",
  "date": "2018-03-19T18:11:00-05:00",
  "photos": [
    {
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/fmam8j/picture205930899/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/Kelsey_Williams_4_.jpg",
      "thumb_url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/fmam8j/picture205930899/ALTERNATES/FREE_640/Kelsey_Williams_4_.jpg",
      "Desc": "Central Missouri senior guard Kelsey Williams scored nine points in the Jennies' 72-62 victory over Lubbock Christian in a NCAA Division II quarterfinal game March 19, 2018 in Sioux Falls, S.D.",
      "Credit": "Courtesy of Central Missouri Athletics",
      "Width": "1140",
      "Height": "760",
      "Weight": 0
    }
  ],
  "videos": null,
  "weight": 15,
  "cover": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/fmam8j/picture205930899/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/Kelsey_Williams_4_.jpg"
}

<p>Central Missouri reached the NCAA Division II women's Final Four for the fifth time in school history and the first time since 1989 on Monday, beating Lubbock Christian 72-62 in a national quarterfinal <span class="aBn"><span class="aQJ">Monday</span></span> afternoon in Sioux Falls, S.D.</p><p>The sixth-seeded Jennies (28-3) knocked off the No. 3 national seed Chaps (31-2), who fell to 0-2 when allowing 70-plus points.</p><p>"We weren't even close guarding them man-to-man," Jennies coach Dave Slifer said. "Our zone was, I am going to say, 'screwy' at best. I don't know that any of us knew what we were doing, but it slowed them down. </p><p>"They were able to figure it out, so we bailed out on that and were able to score enough points to beat a very, very good 31-1 team."</p><p>Sophomore Morgan Fleming of Liberty led the Jennies with 16 points and seven rebounds.</p><p>Central Missouri can tie its school record for victories when it faces No. 7 seed Union (Tenn.), which beat No. 2 seed Carson-Newman 73-70, at <span class="aBn"><span class="aQJ">6 p.m. </span></span><span class="aBn"><span class="aQJ">Wednesday in the </span></span>Sanford Pentagon. </p><p>The national championship game tips off at 7 p.m. Friday. The Jennies' lone NCAA title came in 1983-84 and they were runners-up the next season.</p>

