{
  "id": "195587209",
  "title": "Quinoa kale salad keeps healthful eating resolutions on track",
  "description": "Quinoa Kale Salad With Raisins and Almonds can help you keep your resolution to eat healthier. And for busy cooks, it can be dressed in advance.",
  "author": "By Jill Wendholt Silva The Kansas City Star",
  "date": "2018-01-19T12:31:03-06:00",
  "photos": [
    {
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/living/food-drink/eating-for-life/kkluss/picture195587204/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/KALE%20HORIZONTAL",
      "thumb_url": "http://www.kansascity.com/living/food-drink/eating-for-life/kkluss/picture195587204/ALTERNATES/FREE_640/KALE%20HORIZONTAL",
      "Desc": "Quinoa Kale Salad With Raisins and Almonds can be dressed in advanced to allow time for the kale to soften and flavors to meld.",
      "Credit": "Tammy Ljungblad | tljungblad@kcstar.com",
      "Width": "1140",
      "Height": "759",
      "Weight": 0
    }
  ],
  "videos": null,
  "weight": 20,
  "cover": "http://www.kansascity.com/living/food-drink/eating-for-life/kkluss/picture195587204/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/KALE%20HORIZONTAL"
}

<p>If you’re looking for something to help you keep your new year’s resolution to eat healthier, a kale salad is a good option.</p><p>The sturdy green contains vitamins A and C, folic acid, calcium and iron. </p><p>But there’s also another reason to sing kale’s praises: You can go ahead and dress <strong>The Star’s Quinoa Kale Salad With Raisins</strong> <strong>and Almonds </strong>in advance to allow the kale to soften and the flavors to meld.</p><p><strong>Cooking tips:</strong> You could use any type of cooked quinoa that you have. We used Bob’s Red Mill tri-color for this recipe. Cook quinoa according to package directions.</p><p>Toasting the almonds intensifies the flavor. To toast the almonds, spread in a single layer on a baking sheet. Bake at 350 degrees for 5 to 7 minutes or until lightly toasted.</p><div class="ng_howto"><div class="ng_howto_head"><p>Quinoa Kale Salad With Raisins and Almonds</p> </div><div class="ng_howto_volume"><p>Makes 8 servings</p> </div><div class="ng_howto_components"><p>Dressing:</p> <p>1 clove garlic, minced</p> <p>1 small shallot, minced</p> <p>3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice</p> <p>2 tablespoons honey</p> <p>1 teaspoon Dijon mustard</p> <p>1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil</p> <p>Salt and pepper to taste</p> <p> </p> <p>Salad:</p> <p>6 cups Tuscan kale, ribs removed</p> <p>3 cups romaine</p> <p>1 cup tri-color cooked quinoa</p> <p>1/2 cup golden raisins</p> <p>1/4 cup toasted sliced almonds</p> </div><p>Combine all the dressing ingredients in a small bowl and whisk until well blended. Set aside and allow the dressing flavor to meld and the shallots to soften for at least 10 minutes.</p><p>Tear the kale and romaine into bite-size pieces and place in a salad bowl. Add quinoa, raisins and almonds and toss gently. Drizzle the salad dressing over the salad and toss to combine.</p><div class="ng_howto_facts"><p>Per serving: 193 calories (45 percent from fat), 10 grams total fat (1 gram saturated), no cholesterol, 24 grams carbohydrates, 4 grams protein, 35 milligrams sodium, 3 grams dietary fiber.</p> </div><div class="ng_endnote_contact"><p>Recipe developed exclusively for The Star by professional home economists Kathy Moore and Roxanne Wyss. </p></div></div>

