{
  "id": "201667459",
  "title": "Boulevard has a new Royals-themed beer. Sam Mellinger got the first taste",
  "description": "Boulevard Brewing Co. has whipped up ¡Vamos!, a new Mexican-style lager in honor of the 2018 Kansas City Royals. It will be served at Kauffman Stadium to start the season.",
  "author": "By Sam Mellinger smellinger@kcstar.com",
  "date": "2018-02-22T18:51:39-06:00",
  "photos": null,
  "videos": [
    {
      "Id": "201664979",
      "Title": "Boulevard heads south of the border to honor the Royals with new beer",
      "Credit": "Allison Long and Sam Mellinger | The Kansas City Star",
      "Desc": "Boulevard Brewing Co. has whipped up \u0026iexcl;Vamos!, a new Mexican-style lager in honor of the 2018 Kansas City Royals. The Star\u0026rsquo;s Sam Mellinger got the first taste and discusses with Boulevard\u0026rsquo;s ambassador brewer Jeremy Danner, how the brewery comes up",
      "Thumbnail": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/jgkefd-Beer-keyframe.jpg/ALTERNATES/LANDSCAPE_720/Beer%20keyframe.jpg",
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/sports/mlb/kansas-city-royals/article201664979.html",
      "order": 1,
      "Sources": null
    }
  ],
  "weight": 9,
  "cover": ""
}

<div role="listitem" tabindex="-1"><div data-message-id="161bf7459ddcd777" data-legacy-message-id="161bf7459ddcd777"><div dir="ltr"><p>Boulevard Brewing Company in Kansas City is making a Royals beer, and the brewery invited me out to hear about and taste it. I accepted, because I'm a dedicated journalist.</p><p>Jeremy Danner, Boulevard's ambassador brewer, had an interesting and intelligent description. Mine was simpler: it's a ballpark beer, and even having a sip (or three) on a day icy enough for schools to be cancelled it made me think of warmer weather and baseball. Watch the video above for our awkward non-handshake and Danner's answer when I asked if this was a playoff beer or a rebuilding beer.</p></div></div></div>

