{
  "id": "203142479",
  "title": "North Kansas City bakery recalls ready-to-eat food items containing meat",
  "description": "The Kansas City Baking Co. sold ready-to-eat breakfast burritos and quiche products to cafes in the area without federal inspection.",
  "author": "By Mark Davis mdavis@kcstar.com",
  "date": "2018-03-02T15:18:34-06:00",
  "photos": [
    {
      "Url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/yrv8kt/picture203156389/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/kc%20baking%20co%20susan%20pfannmuller%20.jpg",
      "thumb_url": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/yrv8kt/picture203156389/ALTERNATES/FREE_640/kc%20baking%20co%20susan%20pfannmuller%20.jpg",
      "Desc": "Ready-to-eat croissants containing ham were among products recalled by the Kansas City Baking Co., which sold them to area cafes and coffee shops. They were made without benefit of federal inspections required to sell them.",
      "Credit": "File | ",
      "Width": "1140",
      "Height": "558",
      "Weight": 0
    }
  ],
  "videos": null,
  "weight": 6,
  "cover": "http://www.kansascity.com/latest-news/yrv8kt/picture203156389/ALTERNATES/FREE_1140/kc%20baking%20co%20susan%20pfannmuller%20.jpg"
}

<p>A North Kansas City bakery is recalling a series of breakfast burritos, quiche pies and a croissant sandwich shipped to cafes and coffee shops in the area, the U. S. Department of Agriculture said Friday.</p><p>The Kansas City Baking Co. made the ready-to-eat products that contain meat "without benefit of federal inspection," the USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service said. Labels on the products also failed to disclose that they contain the allergens, wheat, eggs, soy and milk.</p><p>Owner Brad Killen said he was unaware that selling products containing meat requires additional certification than the baking company had. He said the business is certified by the Food and Drug Administration but lacked the certification required by the USDA to sell products containing meat.</p><p>All of the products likely have been consumed at the establishments where they were sold, Killen said. The USDA announcement advised consumers to throw out any of the items they may have. </p><p>Labels on other products, Killen said, are being changed to include the list of allergens. </p><p>Kansas City Baking Co. also <a href="http://www.kansascity.com/news/business/biz-columns-blogs/cityscape/article160625429.html" target="_blank">makes cookies and other products</a> that contain no meat. Killen said he started making the ready-to-eat products with meat a year ago.</p><p>Here is the list of recalled items:<br /></p><ul><li>11-oz. foil-wrapped packages of “Breakfast burrito sausage.”<br /></li><li> 11-oz. foil-wrapped packages of “Breakfast burrito bacon.”<br /></li><li> 11-oz. foil-wrapped packages of “Breakfast burrito chorizo.”<br /></li><li> Individually wrapped packages of “Bacon quiche pie.”<br /></li><li> Individually wrapped packages of “Sausage quiche pie.”<br /></li><li> Individually wrapped packages of “Chorizo quiche pie.”<br /></li><li> Individually wrapped packages of “Sausage bacon quiche pie.”<br /></li><li> Individually wrapped packages of “Ham quiche pie.”<br /></li><li> Individually wrapped packages of “Ham and parmesan croissant.”<br /></li></ul><p><br /></p><p><br /></p>

